Whitespace Remover - gedit plugin
=================================

This plugin for gedit - GNOME text editor - aims to provide a few (acutally
only two) additional convenience methods. Upon saving it will remove whitespace
from the end of all lines and remove trailing newlines from the end of the
document.

This plugin was heavily inspired and is in parts based on Osmo Salomaa's
trailsave plugin <http://users.tkk.fi/~otsaloma/gedit/>. Out of a supposed
missing feature (that proved to be inside of gedit already - thanks for
pointing this out, Osmo) and of having a nice sandbox to learn Python, this
plugin was brought to life. It only extends its predecessor by the ability to
configure its actions on the UI, i18n support and unittests (you might want to
call this bloat ;-)).

Contact
-------

Author: Christian Luginb√ºhl <dinkel@pimprecords.com>
Home:   <http://github.com/dinkel/gedit-whitespace-remover>

Install
-------

Simply extract the package into the ~/.gnome2/gedit/plugins directory, or - for
a system-wide delpoyment - into /usr/lib/gedit-2/plugins (the path may be
different, depending on your distribution).

Then active and configure the plugin through Edit -> Preferences -> Plugins.

Development
-----------

The Makefile provided has quite a few nice methods for pakcage generation,
testing and especially for adding new languages. Even though everybody can read
this file for finding about the possible targets, here are a few short notices
for adding/updating new languages:

- Creating a new locale:

  $ make create-locale LOCALE=it_IT (or simply LOCALE=it)

- Updating all .po-files (creating and merging a new .pot-template):

  $ make update-locales

- Compiling locales (creating new .mo-files):

  $ make compile-locales

It proved helpful for development to check out the git-repository to your
favourite location and create symlinks in your personal plugins directory to
the necessary files and directories, like so:

$ ln -s ~/${YOUR_REPO_ROOT}/whitespace-remover.gedit-plugin \
        ~/${YOUR_REPO_ROOT}/whitespace-remover/ \
        ~/.gnome2/gedit/plugins/

Comments / Bugs
---------------

Although I do consider myself as a skilled programmer, these are my first steps
in Python and gedit plugin programming. Therefore I'm eager to hear your
comments about this piece of software. Also if you find a bug or thought of an
enhancment, please use GitHubs bugtracking system. This plugin's home is stated
above.
